docs/_pages/docs/creating_filters/custom-filters.md, before:

---
permalink: /docs/custom-filters
layout: single
classes: wide
title: Custom Filters
sidebar:
  nav: "sidebar"
---

Regolith allows you to write your own local files, and register them directly as filters. Special support is provided for filters written with Python, Node JS, and other languages.

To start writing a custom filter, you first need a script to run. We will use `hello_world.py` as an example:

```py
print("Hello world!")
```

## Creating Scripts

New filters can be defined anywhere, but the suggested location is in `filters` folder, at the top level of the Regolith project. This folder isn't created for you, so you need to create it yourself. 

Once this folder is created, you can add your scripts here. You can organize with sub-folders if desired.

## Filter Data

The accepted flow for Regolith is to store configuration scripts and configs inside of the `data` folder. This folder has special support that makes it easy to access during compilation. Read more about the data folder [here](/regolith/docs/data-folder).

## Registering Custom Filter

Now you can register your script by placing the filter into `filterDefinitions`. Here is a full example, which defines a new filter named "test", and runs it in the "default" profile.

```json
{
  "name": "example",
  "author": "example",
  "packs": {
    "behaviorPack": "./packs/BP",
    "resourcePack": "./packs/RP"
  },
  "regolith": {
    "profiles": {
      "default": {
        "filters": [
          {
            "filter": "test"
          }
        ],
        "export": {
          "target": "local",
          "readOnly": false
        }
      }
    },
    "filterDefinitions": {
      "test": {
        "runWith": "python",
        "script": "./filters/test.py"
      }
    },
    "dataPath": "./packs/data"
  }
}
```

You can use the following "runWith" types:
 - [python](/regolith/docs/python-filters)
 - [nodejs](/regolith/docs/nodejs-filters)
 - [deno](/regolith/docs/deno-filters)
 - [java](/regolith/docs/java-filters)
 - [nim](/regolith/docs/nim-filters)
 - [shell](/regolith/docs/shell-filters)

Please see the dedicated pages for these run-types for more information!

## Filter Arguments

Fundamentally, a Regolith run target is a wrapper around generating a system command, and running it. For example, the following json will generate the command: `python ./filters/hello_world.py`.

```json
{
  "runWith": "python",
  "script": "./filters/hello_world.py"
}
```

If you need to pass additional command line arguments, you can do so like this:

`"arguments": ["-u", "--no-console"]` (example of additional console commands)

These console arguments will be passed into the script as args.

## Filter Settings

The settings object is a special property of run targets, that allow passing in minified/stringified json as an arg. 

Here is an example:

```json
{
  "runWith": "python",
  "script": "./filters/message.py",
  "settings": {
    "message": "Hello World!"
  }
}
```

This will generate: `python ./filters/message.py {'message':'Hello World!'}`

This is useful for passing user-defined settings into your filter. Simply handle the first argument in the argument array, and interpret it as json!

## Filter Environment Variables

Every filter process ran by regolith has an additional environment variable, called `FILTER_DIR`. This environment variable contains an absolute path to the cache directory, where currently ran filter is. You may use this to build out additional behavior, if desired.

Commit message:

Added profile filter page. Fixed doc-tree. Fixed invalid NodeJS url. Fixed shell filter description

docs/_pages/docs/creating_filters/custom-filters.md, after:

---
permalink: /docs/custom-filters
layout: single
classes: wide
title: Custom Filters
sidebar:
  nav: "sidebar"
---

Regolith allows you to write your own local files, and register them directly as filters. Special support is provided for filters written with Python, Node JS, and other languages.

To start writing a custom filter, you first need a script to run. We will use `hello_world.py` as an example:

```py
print("Hello world!")
```

## Creating Scripts

New filters can be defined anywhere, but the suggested location is in `filters` folder, at the top level of the Regolith project. This folder isn't created for you, so you need to create it yourself. 

Once this folder is created, you can add your scripts here. You can organize with sub-folders if desired.

## Filter Data

The accepted flow for Regolith is to store configuration scripts and configs inside of the `data` folder. This folder has special support that makes it easy to access during compilation. Read more about the data folder [here](/regolith/docs/data-folder).

## Registering Custom Filter

Now you can register your script by placing the filter into `filterDefinitions`. Here is a full example, which defines a new filter named "test", and runs it in the "default" profile.

```json
{
  "name": "example",
  "author": "example",
  "packs": {
    "behaviorPack": "./packs/BP",
    "resourcePack": "./packs/RP"
  },
  "regolith": {
    "profiles": {
      "default": {
        "filters": [
          {
            "filter": "test"
          }
        ],
        "export": {
          "target": "local",
          "readOnly": false
        }
      }
    },
    "filterDefinitions": {
      "test": {
        "runWith": "python",
        "script": "./filters/test.py"
      }
    },
    "dataPath": "./packs/data"
  }
}
```

You can use the following "runWith" types:
 - [python](/regolith/docs/python-filters)
 - [nodejs](/regolith/docs/node-filters)
 - [deno](/regolith/docs/deno-filters)
 - [java](/regolith/docs/java-filters)
 - [nim](/regolith/docs/nim-filters)
 - [shell](/regolith/docs/shell-filters)

There is also the [profile](/regolith/docs/profile-filters) filter with slightly different syntax. It lets you nest profiles.

Please see the dedicated pages for these run-types for more information!

## Filter Arguments

Fundamentally, a Regolith run target is a wrapper around generating a system command, and running it. For example, the following json will generate the command: `python ./filters/hello_world.py`.

```json
{
  "runWith": "python",
  "script": "./filters/hello_world.py"
}
```

If you need to pass additional command line arguments, you can do so like this:

`"arguments": ["-u", "--no-console"]` (example of additional console commands)

These console arguments will be passed into the script as args.

## Filter Settings

The settings object is a special property of run targets, that allow passing in minified/stringified json as an arg. 

Here is an example:

```json
{
  "runWith": "python",
  "script": "./filters/message.py",
  "settings": {
    "message": "Hello World!"
  }
}
```

This will generate: `python ./filters/message.py {'message':'Hello World!'}`

This is useful for passing user-defined settings into your filter. Simply handle the first argument in the argument array, and interpret it as json!

## Filter Environment Variables

Every filter process ran by regolith has an additional environment variable, called `FILTER_DIR`. This environment variable contains an absolute path to the cache directory, where currently ran filter is. You may use this to build out additional behavior, if desired.
